---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0123. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock III
tags: []
---

This problem is a special case of problem **188. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock IV**. The following solution works for both problems. The only difference is that here we have `k = 2` transactions and in problem 188 we can have different `k`.

My way to solve this problem is to first evaluate matrix `B` of differences and then what is asked is to find the maximum sum of **two(k)** contiguous subarrays. We can also make optimization `if k > len(prices)//2: return sum(x for x in B if x > 0)`, which will help us, if `k` is big (in this problem it is equal to `2`, so you can remove this line, but you need it for problem 188). If `k` is more than half of length of `prices`, we can just choose all positive elements, we will have enough trancastions to do it.

Let us create `dp` array with size `k+1` by `n-1`, where `dp[i][j]` is the maximum gain, where already made `j` transactions, that is choose `j` contiguous subarrays and used all elements before our equal number `i`. Also, `mp[i][j] = max(dp[0][j], ..., dp[i][j])`. We take `k+1` size, because we start with `0` transactions, which will be filled with zeros. We take `n-1` size, because original size is `n`, and size of differences is `n-1`. Also we start with `dp[0][1] = B[0]`, because we need to choose one contiguous subarray which ends with element `B[0]`, which is `B[0]` itself. Also we put `mp[0][1] = B[0]` for the same logic.

Now, about updates: we iterate over all `i` from `1` to `n-2` inclusive and `j` from `1` to `k` inclusive and:
1. Update `dp[i][j] = max(mp[i-1][j-1], dp[i-1][j]) + B[i]`. By definition we need to take `B[i]`. We can either say, that we add it to the last contiguous subarray: `dp[i-1][j] + B[i]`, or we say that it is new contiguous subarray: `mp[i-1][j-1] + B[i]`. Note, here we use `mp`, because we actually have `max(dp[0][j-1], ... , dp[i-1][j-1])`.
2. Update `mp[i][j] = max(dp[i][j], mp[i-1][j])`.
3. Finally, return maximum from the `mp[-1]`, we need to choose maximum, because optimal solution can be with less than `k` transactions.

**Complexity**: Time complexity is `O(nk) = O(n)`, because here `k = 2`. Space complexity is also `O(nk) = O(n)`.

```python
class Solution:
    def maxProfit(self, prices):
        if len(prices) <= 1: return 0
        n, k = len(prices), 2

        B = [prices[i+1] - prices[i] for i in range(len(prices) - 1)]
        if k > len(prices)//2: return sum(x for x in B if x > 0)
        
        dp = [[0]*(k+1) for _ in range(n-1)] 
        mp = [[0]*(k+1) for _ in range(n-1)] 

        dp[0][1], mp[0][1] = B[0], B[0]

        for i in range(1, n-1):
            for j in range(1, k+1):
                dp[i][j] = max(mp[i-1][j-1], dp[i-1][j]) + B[i]
                mp[i][j] = max(dp[i][j], mp[i-1][j])

        return max(mp[-1])
```

### Optimization:

Note, that if we have array like `[1,5,7, -7, -4, -3, 10, 2, 7, -4, -8, 13, 15]`, then we can work in fact with smaller array `[1+5+7, -7-4-3, 10+2+7, -4-8, 13+15] = [13,-14,19,-12,28]`. So, instead of `B = [prices[i+1] - prices[i] for i in range(len(prices) - 1)]`, we can evaluate:

```
delta = [prices[i+1]-prices[i] for i in range (len(prices)-1)]
B=[sum(delta) for _, delta in groupby(delta, key=lambda x: x < 0)]
n, k = len(B) + 1, 2
```
When used this code, I have `132ms` to `64`ms improvement (which is faster than 99%).
Thanks `user2349` for providing shorter version of code!
