---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0220. Contains Duplicate III
tags: []
---

In my opinion it is more like **hard** problem, because brute-force solution will get you TLE and all other solutions uses some not easy trick: either heaps or BST or bucket sort. If you know some other solution without these ideas, please let me know!

In this problem we need to iterate over window of size `k+1` and check if there is numbers with difference `<=t` in this window. What we need to do efficiently is to add and remove elements from our window, and my choice of data structure is BST, which is implemented in `SortedList` in python. So on each step we have sorted list of elements in this window. Imagine the case:

`[1, 3, 7, 12]` and new number we need to insert is `10`, and `t = 2`. Then we need to consider range `[8,12]` and check if we have numbers in our `SList` in this range. We can do two binary searches here: `bisect_left` for left boundary and `bisect_right` for right boundary. Also we need to check if `pos1 != len(SList)`, if this is the case, it means that new number is bigger than bigges number in list + `t`, so in this case we just put it directly to our list. If `pos1 != pos2`, this means, that we found some number i our `[nums[i] - t, nums[i] + t]` range, so we immediatly return `True`.

**Complexity**: time complexity is `O(n log k)`, because we do `n` steps, each one with `O(log k)` complexity to do binary search, remove and add elements. Space complexity is `O(k)` to keep our `SortedList` updated.

```
from sortedcontainers import SortedList

class Solution:
    def containsNearbyAlmostDuplicate(self, nums, k, t):
        SList = SortedList()
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            if i > k: SList.remove(nums[i-k-1])   
            pos1 = SortedList.bisect_left(SList, nums[i] - t)
            pos2 = SortedList.bisect_right(SList, nums[i] + t)
            
            if pos1 != pos2 and pos1 != len(SList): return True
            
            SList.add(nums[i])
        
        return False
```

**PS** because of time complexity `O(n log k)`, this solution will not be on top, there is `O(n)` bucket sort solution, but in my opinion it is for certain hard level.
