---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0239. Sliding Window Maximum
permalink: /Leetcode Problems/0239/
---

There are a big variety of different algorithms for this problem. The most difficult, but most efficient uses idea of decreasing deque: on each moment of time we will keep only decreasing numbers in it. Let us consider the following example: `nums = [1,3,-1,-3,5,3,6,7], k = 3`. Let us process numbers one by one: (I will print numbers, however we will keep **indexes** in our stack):

1. We put `1` into emtpy deque: `[1]`.
2. New element is bigger, than previous, so we remove previous element and put new one:  `[3]`.
3. Next element is smaller than previous, put it to the end of deque: `[3, -1]`.
4. Similar to previous step: `[3, -1, -3]`.
5. Now, let us look at the first element `3`, it has index **1** in our data, what does it mean? It was to far ago, and we need to delete it: so we `popleft` it. So, now we have `[-1, -3]`. Then we check that new element is bigger than the top of our deque, so we remove two elements and have `[5]` in the end.
6. New element is smaller than previous, just add it to the end: `[5, 3]`.
7. New element is bigger, remove elements from end, until we can put it: `[6]`.
8. New element is bigger, remove elements from end, until we can put it: `[7]`.

So, once again we have the following rules:
1. Elements in deque are always in decreasing order.
2. They are always elements from last sliding window of `k` elements.
3. It follows from here, that biggest element in current sliding window will be the `0`-th element in it.

**Complexity**: time complexity is `O(n)`, because we iterate over our elements and for each element it can be put inside and outside of our deque only once. Space complexity is `O(k)`, the maximum size of our deque.


```python
class Solution:
    def maxSlidingWindow(self, nums, k):
        deq, n, ans = deque([0]), len(nums), []

        for i in range (n):
            while deq and deq[0] <= i - k:
                deq.popleft()
            while deq and nums[i] >= nums[deq[-1]] :
                deq.pop()
            deq.append(i)
            
            ans.append(nums[deq[0]])
            
        return ans[k-1:]
```