---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0260. Single Number III
tags: []
---

I think it is rather hard problem than medium. If you solved Single Number I or II problems you probably can immediately say, that this problem is about bit manipulations. So, the first step is to evaluate `XOR` of all numbers, but what is next? It is indeed very difficult question, if we are not allowed to use extra memory and we want to stay with `O(n)` iterations. So, what exactly we get, when we evaluate `XOR` of all numbers? We will have `num1 ^ num2`, where `num1` and `num2` are desired numbers. We need to use all the imformation given in statement, and so these numbers are different, and it means there will be at least one `bit`, where they differ, it means one number of `num1` and `num2` have this bit equal to `0` and other to `1` . Let us remember this bit and traverse data once again: making `XOR` of numbers, where this bit is equal to `1`. Then we get exactly one of our desired numbers. Finally, we can find other number, using `num2 = s^num1`, where `s` is `XOR` of all numbers.

1. Evaluate `s` - `XOR` of all numbers.
2. `nz` is non-zero bit. `s&(s-1)` trick is used to remove last `1`: for example for number `s = 110100`, the value `s&(s-1) = 110000`, and `s & (s-1) ^ s = 110000 ^ 110100 = 000100`.
3. We evaluate `num1`, using only numbers, where this bit is not absent.
4. Finally, we evaluate `num2 = s ^ num` and return answer.

**Complexity**: time complexity is `O(n)`, where we do `2` passes over data. Additional space complexity is `O(1)`, we use just several additional variables.

```python
class Solution:
    def singleNumber(self, nums):
        s = reduce(xor, nums)
        nz = s & (s-1) ^ s
        num1 = reduce(xor, filter(lambda n: n & nz, nums))
        return(num1, s ^ num1)
```

**Update** Thanks @rkmd for pointing out nicer ways to use `reduce` function!
