---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0368. Largest Divisible Subset
tags: [dp, math]
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/largest-divisible-subset"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/largest-divisible-subset

First of all, notice, that if we need to find `3` numbers  given properties, than if we put then in decreasing order `a > b > c`, than it is sufficient and enough that `a%b = 0` and `b%c=0`, then it is automatically `a%c=0`. 

Let us know sort our number and in `sol[i]` list keep the best solution, where the biggest number is equal to `nums[i]`. How can we find it? Look at all smaller numbers and if `nums[i]` is divisible by this smaller number, we can update solution. Let us go through example: `nums = [4,5,8,12,16,20].`
1. `sol[0] = [4]`, the biggest divisible subset has size `1`.
2. `sol[1] = [5]`, because `5 % 4 != 0`.
3. `sol[2] = [4,8]`, because `8 % 4 = 0`.
4. `sol[3] = [4,12]`, because `12 % 4 = 0`. 
5. `sol[4] = [4,8,16]`, because `16 % 8 = 0` and `16 % 4 = 0` and we choose `8`, because it has longer set.
6. `sol[5] = [4,20]` (or `[5,20]` in fact, but it does not matter). We take `[4,20]`, because it has the biggest length and when we see `5`, we do not update it.
7. Finally, answer is `[4,8,16]`.


**Complexity**: time complexity is `O(n^2)`, because we fist sort our numbers and then we have double loop. Space complexity also potentially `O(n^2)`, but for big `n`, length of the longest subset will not be more than `32`: (each time you new number will be at least twice bigger than previous, so there will be maximum 32 numbers in our set) so so we can say it is `O(32n)`.

### Possible improvements
Note similarity of this problem with problem **300 Longest Increasing Subsequence**, however it is different, and we can not apply `O(n log n)` algorighm here directly, when we add new number we can not use binary search.
There is idea by **@yanrucheng** with comlexity `O(nlogn + n*sqrt(V))`, where `V` is the biggest number. I am interested, if there is `O(n log n)` solution here? If you know such method please let me know!


```python
class Solution:
    def largestDivisibleSubset(self, nums):
        if len(nums) == 0: return []
        nums.sort()
        sol = [[num] for num in nums]
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            for j in range(i):
                if nums[i] % nums[j] == 0 and len(sol[i]) < len(sol[j]) + 1:
                    sol[i] = sol[j] + [nums[i]]
        return max(sol, key=len)
```

If you like the solution, you can **upvote** it on leetcode discussion section:<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/largest-divisible-subset/discuss/684738/python-short-dp-with-on2-explained-update"> <font color = blue>Problem 0368
