---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0377. Combination Sum IV
tags: [dp, generating functions]
---

#### Problem statement

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum-iv/"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum-iv/

#### Solution
You probably saw a lot of different solutions for this problem, but I can guess, that you did not saw this one. The idea is here is to use generating functions. Imagine, that we have coins `1, 2, 5`. Let us create polynomial `(x^1 + x^2 + x^5)`. Now, let us consider powers of this polynom. For example:
1. `(x^1 + x^2 + x^5)^ 1 = (x^1 + x^2 + x^5)`, nothing very intersting here.
2. `(x^1 + x^2 + x^5)^2 = x^2 + x^3 + x^6 + x^3 + x^4 + x^8 + x^6 + x^7 + x^10`. What we have here. For example we can see that there is only one way to get target `2`, because coefficient will be equal to `1` before `x^2`, there is `2` ways to get `6` and so on.
3. In general if we have  `(x^1 + x^2 + x^5)^k`, then coefficients will show us how many ways we can get one or another target, using exactly **k** coins.

Now, we can use problem restrictions: that is that answer will always be less than `2^32`, so if we use `x = 2^32` and will work with operations in `2^32` base system, everything will be fine. Also we use python long numbers, which is very helpful here.

1. Create `T` is our polynomial with `x = 2^32`.
2. Define `S = 1` and `ans = 0`.
3. Iterate over powers of `T`. Each time we multiply `S` by `T`. However we do not want to have too big numbers, so we use `& (1<<(32*t+32)) - 1`, trick, which will give us last `t + 1` digits in `2^32` base system.
4. Update our answer: this is value `S >> (32*t)`, that is value of `t`-th digit in our `2^32` base system.

#### Complexity
It is a bit difficult to estimate it like this, but on each operation and we have `t` of them we will work with number which have no more than `O(32m)` bits, where `m` is the biggest number among `nums.` So, total time complexity will be `O(32*m*t)`, space complexity is `O(32*m)`. However in practice it works quite fast.

#### Code
```
class Solution:
    def combinationSum4(self, nums, t):
        T = sum([1<<(32*n) for n in nums])
        S, ans = 1, 0
        for i in range(t):
            S = (S*T) & (1<<(32*t+32)) - 1
            ans += S >> (32*t)
            
        return ans
```