---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0382. Linked List Random Node
tags: [linked list, random, math]
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/linked-list-random-node"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/linked-list-random-node

Let us solve this question for follow-up question: we do not want to use additional memory here. There is specific method for this, whith is called **reservoir sampling** (actually, special case of it), which I am going to explain now. Imagine, that we have only `3` nodes in our linked list, then we do the following logic:
1. On the first step we either stay in first node with probability `1/2` or go to the next one also with probability `1/2`.
2. On the second step, we do the following: if we are in node number **1**, then we stay in this node with probability `2/3` and go to node number **2** with probability `1/3`. If we in node number **2**, then we stay in it with probability `1/3` and go to node number **3** with probability `2/3`. Why everything will be OK? There is only one way, how you can stay in node **1**, and probability is `1/2 * 2/3`. There are two cases, how you can go to node number **2**: stay on first step and go on second and go on first step and stay on second: probability will be `1/2*1/3 + 1/2*1/3 = 1/3`. Finally, probability to be in node **3** is also `1/3`.

Now, imagine, that we already covered `n` nodes and we have probabilites: `1/n, 1/n, ..., 1/n`. Then we need to make one more step and have probabilites `1/(n+1), 1/(n+1), ... , 1/(n+1)`. How we can do it?
   1. If we are in the first node, we stay in it with probability `n/(n+1)` and go next with probability `1/(n+1)`.

   2. If we are in the second node, we stay in it with probability `(n-1)/(n+1)` and go next with probability `2/(n+1)`.

      n. If we are in node `n`, we stai in it with probability `1/(n+1)` and go next with probability `n/(n+1)`.

Why it is working? There is only one way how you can be in node **1**: with probability `1/n* n/(n+1) = 1/(n+1)`. There is two options for node **2**, with probability `1/n*(n-1)/(n+1) + 1/n* 1/(n+1) = 1/(n+1)` and so on.

Finally, let us go to the code: we keep `n` and `k` values: `n` is number of nodes we count in list so far and `k` is current node we are in. Each moment of time we decide if we go to next node or rest in current. If we go to next, we increase `k` by one and change our `ans` node. Increase `n` in any case.

**Complexity**: time compexity is `O(n)` and you can not really do anything with if you are not allowed to use extra memory. Space complexity however only `O(1)`, if we do not count our input.

```python
class Solution:
    def __init__(self, head):
        self.head = head

    def getRandom(self):
        n, k = 1, 1
        head, ans = self.head, self.head
        while head.next:
            n += 1
            head = head.next
            if random.random() < k/n:
                ans = ans.next
                k += 1
                
        return ans.val
```

If you like the solution, you can **upvote** it on leetcode discussion section:<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/linked-list-random-node/discuss/956872/python-reservoir-sampling-(follow-up)-explained"> <font color = blue>Problem 0382
