---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0416. Partition Equal Subset Sum
tags: [dp, bit manipulation]
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/partition-equal-subset-sum"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/partition-equal-subset-sum

 We are asked if we can choose sum numbers such that the give in sum our number. We can do it in DP way with complexity $O(mn)$, where $n$ is amount of numbers and $m$ is sum of all numbers. This is classical discrete knapsack problem. Let `dp[i][j]` means whether the specific sum `j` can be gotten from the first `i` numbers. Then we can update it in $O(1)$: `dp[i][j] = dp[i-1][j-A[i-1]]` or `dp[i-1][j]`. Actually, we do not need $O(mn)$ memory, just $O(m)$: initialize it with False, except zero element, which is True. Then add first number and update some `dp[A1] = True`, then second number and so on.

The idea here is to use usual dp with states, but to encode them with numbers. Let me explain on small example, what I mean. Imagine, that we have numbers `A = [1,5,11,5]`, then let us start with `a = 1`:

1. Step 1, what numbers, we can get, using only first number `1`: it is only `1`, so `a = 11`: we have onese on the places we can represent.
2. Step 2, what numbers we can get, using only numbers `1` and `5`: it is `1`, `5` and `6`, and `a = 1100011`
3. Step 3, what numbers we can get, using numbers `1`, `5`, `11`? it is `1,5,6,11,12,16,17`, so `a = 110001100001100011`, where we have ones on exactly the places which can be represented with some sum of numbers.
4. Step 4, we have now `a = 11000110001110001100011`

Finally, we need to just check if we have `1` in the middle of this number or not.

**Complexity**: time complexity is `O(N*n)`, where `N = sum(A)` and `n = len(A)`. Space complexity is `O(N)`. Note, that in practice however it will work several times faster than usual dp due to fast bit operations.

```python
class Solution:
    def canPartition(self, A):
        a = reduce(lambda a, num: a|(a<<num), A, 1)
        return sum(A)%2 == 0 and a & (1 << (sum(A)//2)) != 0
```

**Update**: oneliner from **rkmd**:
```
return not (t := sum(A)) % 2 and reduce(lambda a, x: a | a << x, A, 1) & 1 << t // 2
```

If you have any questions, feel free to ask. If you like solution and explanations, please **Upvote!**

If you like the solution, you can **upvote** it on leetcode discussion section:<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/partition-equal-subset-sum/discuss/950617/python-fastest-dp-with-bit-manipulation-explained"> <font color = blue>Problem 0416
