---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0436. Find Right Interval
tags: []
---

Let us look carefully at our statement: for each interval `i` we need to find interval `j`, whose start is bigger or equal to the end point of interval `i`. We can rephrase this:
Given end of interval `i`, we need to find such point among starts of interval, which goes immedietly after this end of iterval `i`. How we can find this point? We can sort our intervals by starts (and hopefully there is no equal starts by statement) and then for each end of interval find desired place. Let us go through exapmle:
`[1,12], [2,9], [3,10], [13,14], [15,16], [16,17]` (I already sorted it by starts):

1. Look for number `12` in `begs = [1,2,3,13,15,16]`. What place we need? It is `3`, because `12 <13` and `12 > 3`.
2. Look for number `9`, again place is `3`.
3. Look for number `10`, place is `3`.
4. Look for number `14`, place is `4`, because `13<14<15`.
5. Look for number `16`, what is place? In is `5`, because `begs[5] = 16`. Exactly for this reason we use `bisect_left`, which will deal with these cases.
6. Look for number `17`, what is place? it is `6`, but it means it is bigger than any number in our `begs`, so we should return `-1`.

So, what we do:
1. Sort our intervals by starts, but also we need to keep they original numbers, so I sort triplets: `[start, end, index]`.
2. Create array of starts, which I call `begs`.
3. Creaty `out` result, which filled with `-1`.
4. Iterate over `ints` and for every end `j`, use `bisect_left`. Check that found index `t < len(begs)` and if it is, update `out[k] = ints[t][2]`. Why we update in this way, because our intervals in sorter list have different order, so we need to obtain original index.

**Complexity**: time complexity is `O(n log n)`: both for sort and for `n` binary searches. Space complexity is `O(n)`.

```python
class Solution:
    def findRightInterval(self, intervals):
        ints = sorted([[j,k,i] for i,[j,k] in enumerate(intervals)])
        begs = [i for i,_,_ in ints]
        out = [-1]*len(begs)
        for i,j,k in ints:
            t = bisect.bisect_left(begs, j)
            if t < len(begs):
                out[k] = ints[t][2]
        
        return out
```
