---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0466. Count The Repetitions
tags: [string, dp, two pointers]
---

#### Problem statement

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/count-the-repetitions/"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/count-the-repetitions/

#### Solution
Bruteforce solution is to use Two Pointers idea and to directly start to look `S2` in `S1`, using Problem **0392** Is Subsequence. Time complexity is `O(l1 * n1)`, where `l1` is length of `s1`. We can do better

Let function `SubStr(t, s)` will return what is the longest beginning of `s` is subsequence of `t`, for example

1. If `s = abaacdbac` and `t = adcbd`, then answer is `2`, because `adc` is substring of `s` but `adcb` is not.
2. Also for the case `s = aaa` and `t = aa`, answer is `3`, because we can find substring and then start all over again.

We keep the following data:

1. `d` is dictionary with key: number modulo `l2` - what element we currently are for string `s2`, value is pair: how many times we traversed string `s2` already; second number is how many times we traversed string `s1`.
2. `l` is list similar to `d`, but in different order: `l[i]` means that we traversed `s2` `i` times: first element is what element modulo `l2` we are on the string `s2`; second number is how many times we traversed string `s2`.

When we traverse big string `s1`, each time we update pair `(p, last)`: how many times we traversed `s2` and place modulo `l2`. Then we check if we already have this `last` place in dictionary: if not, update `l` and `d`

If we already meet it, it means, that we found loop. What we need to do in this case is to calculate period `T` of this loop (number of times we traverse `s1`), `C` is number of times we traverse `s2` on each loop and `start` is starting place of this loop. Then we need to find place `q`: the smallest element, bigger than start, which is in the same loop place as `n1`. Finally, we calculate how many times we need to traverse loop. 

It also can happen that loop did not start and we return `l[-1][1]//n2` then.

#### Complexity
Time complexity is `O(l1 * l2)`, because by pigeonhole principle there will be no more than `l2` elements in our `d` and we run function `SubStr` with `O(l1)` complexity this number of times. Space complexity is `O(l2)` to keep `l` and `d`.

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def getMaxRepetitions(self, s1, n1, s2, n2):
        def SubStr(t, s):
            i, j = 0, 0
            while j < len(t):
                i, j = i + (s[i%len(s)] == t[j]), j + 1
            return i
        
        l1, l2 = len(s1), len(s2)
        d = {0: (0, 0)}
        l = [(0, 0)]
        last, p = 0, 0
        
        for i in range(1, n1 + 1):
            p, last = divmod(p*l2 + last + SubStr(s1, s2[last:]+s2[:last]), l2)
            
            if last in d:
                C, T, start = p - d[last][0], i - d[last][1], d[last][1]
                q = ((max(0, start - n1%T) - 1)//T + 1) * T + n1%T
                return (l[q][1] + (n1-q)//T*C)//n2
            
            l.append((last, p))
            d[last] = (p, i)
                       
        return l[-1][1]//n2
```
