---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0470. Implement Rand10() Using Rand7()
permalink: /Leetcode Problems/0470/
---

What we can do here is to generate numbers between `1` and `7` and this makes this problems both easy and difficult. Easy, because you do not have a lot of choice what to do, difficult, because we need to use not very big number of generations. Can we use one number between `1` and `7` to generate number between `1` and `10`? I do not think so, we have very small choice. Can we use `2`? Yes, we can, here is the strategy:
1. Generate `a` from `1` to `7` and `b` from `1` to `7`, then we have `7x7 = 49` options. Let us create number `c = (a-1)*7 + b-1`, then we can show that `c` is number between `0` and `48`: substitute all possible values for `a` and `b` and you will see. 
2. Now, let us divide these number into groups: `[0,9]; [10;19]; [20;29]; [30;39]; [40;48]`. If we get into one of the first four group we are happy: there is ten number in each group, so we just return `c%10 + 1`.
3. If we are in the fifth group, we are not happy, there are only `9` numbers in this group and we need `10`, use `9` is not fair. So in these case, we say, that our experiment was not working, and we just start it all over again! That is all.

**Complexity**: what we do here is called sampling with rejection. Success of first sampling is `p = 40/49`. If first time our sampling was not working and it worked second time we have `(1-p)*p`, if it worked third time it is `(1-p)*(1-p)*p` and so on. Each time we use two `rand7()` generation. So, overall our **expectation** is `2*p + 4*(1-p)*p + 6*(1-p)^2*p + ...` How to compute it? Note, that it is nothing else than geometrical distribution: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geometric_distribution, so the answer is just `2/p` = `98/40 = 2.45`.

```python
class Solution:
    def rand10(self):
        c = (rand7() - 1)*7 + rand7() - 1
        return self.rand10() if c >= 40 else (c % 10) + 1
```