---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0630. Course Schedule III
tags: [greedy, dp, heap]
---

#### Problem statement

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/course-schedule-iii/"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/course-schedule-iii/

#### Solution
The clue idea, without which this problem is unsolvable, is then we always can change order of taken courses, such that their end times are increasing. It does not mean, that we need to take all the courses one by one, but there will always be order. For example if we have courses `1,2,3,4`, we can take `1,2,4` or `1,3,4` or something else, but it always will be subsequence of `1,2,3,4`. Note, that there is still `O(2^n)` options, so we are not able to check them all, so we need some additional idea.

One possible solution is to use dp with states `(i, time)`, where `i` means that we already considered first `i` courses (we take some of them and did not take some of them) and `time` means what moment of time it is now. Then on each step we can have two options: take course number `i` and do not take it. Overall time and space complexity is `O(n * d)`, where `n` is number of courses and `d` is maximum value of days we have.

Another approach is to try to use greedy approach, when we add new course. Let us consider courses one by one and our **invariant** after `k` courses will be pair `(N_k, T_k)`, where `N_k` is the maximum number of courses we can take and `T_k` is minimum time spend for taken courses. So, what happened, when we add `(k+1)`th course? If it fits, we just add it, so `N_{k+1} = N_k + 1` and `T_{k+1} = T_k + l_{k+1}`, where `l_{k+1}` is length of course number `k+1`. If it not fits, then it means, it is not possible to take `N_k+1` courses and we can take only `N_k`. However, we need to minimize `T_{k+1}` as well! So we have to get rid of one of the courses, such that we can fit `N_k` of them.

So, we already know that we can take at most `N_k` courses among first `k + 1` courses, the question is now which ones should be choose? The answer is that we need to choose courses with the smallest possible durations. As we sorted our courses by end times, on each step the set of avaliable courses we can take can only increase. So, we add courses one by one and if it happens that we can not fit them all, we need to get rid of the most heavy ones: with biggest duration. 

#### Complexity
Time complexity is `O(n*log n)`, space is `O(n)`.

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def scheduleCourse(self, courses):
        heap, time = [], 0
        for t, end in sorted(courses, key=lambda x: x[1]):
            time += t
            heapq.heappush(heap, -t)
            if time > end:
                nt = heapq.heappop(heap)
                time += nt
        return len(heap)
```

#### Remark
If we do not use queue and just find each time longest course among `n`, we have `O(n^2)` complexity. We can optimize it to `O(n * m)`, where `m` is our total number of courses found, if we take into account that we need to look among only taken courses, not all of them.
