---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0714. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock with Transaction Fee
tags: []
---

Let us define `diff[i] = B[i+1] - B[i]`. Then we need to find maximum gain for several continuous subarrays, where we pay fee for each subarray. Let us consider it on example:
`[1, 3, 5, 4, 8, 7, 4]`, then differences will be `[2, 2, -1, 4, -1, -3]`. For example we can take two subarrays `[2, 2]` and `[4]`, it means we make two trancastions and we need to pay `2` fees. In original array it means we buy at price `1`, then sell at price `5`. Then buy at price `4` and sell at price `8`.

Use dynamic programming, where `dp[i]` is maximum gain at `i`-th moment of time if we use `diff[i]` and `sp[i]` be maximum among `dp[0], ..., dp[i]`, that is running maximum, that is `sp[i]` is the gain we can get, using first `i` times.
Then we can have `2` options:

1. We continue last subarray, so we get `diff[i] + dp[i-1]`.
2. We start new subarray, so we get `diff[i] + sp[i-2] - fee`: here we take `sp[i-2]`, because we need to skip one element, so subarrays are separated.

Let us look at our example with differences `[2, 2, -1, 4, -1, -3]`:

1.`dp[0]` is the maximum gain we can get using ony first difference, we can have `2` and we need to pay fee, so we have `1`.
2.`dp[1]` is maxumum gain we can get using `[2, 2]`. We can continue previous transaction, so we will gain `3`. Or we can try to start new transaction. However it is not possible, because we need to have a gap here.
3.`dp[2]` is maximum gain we can get using `[2, 2, -1]`. Note, that by definition of `dp[i]` we need to use last element here, so again we have two choices: if we continue first transaction, we have `3-1 = 2` gain. Or we start new transaction, and then we need to make gap and previous transaction will be for element `i-2` or smaller. Exaclty for this we use `sp`: running maximum of `dp`. In our case `sp[0] = 1`, so total gain if we start new transaction is `sp[0] - fee + -1 = -1`.
4.`dp[3]` is maximum gain we can get using `[2, 2, -1, 4]`. Again, we can have two choices: continue last transaction, in this case we have `dp[2] + 4 = 6`. If we start new transaction, we have `sp[1] - fee + 4 = 6` as well. So in this case does not matter, what option we choose and it makes sence: fee is equal to decrease of price.
5.`dp[4]` is maximum gain we can get using `[2, 2, -1, 4, -1]`. Again, we have choice between `dp[3] + -1 = 5` and `sp[2] - fee + -1 = 4`.
6.`dp[5]` is maximum gain we can get using `[2, 2, -1, 4, -1, -3]`. We have either `dp[4] + -3 = 2` or `sp[3] - fee + -3 = 2`.

Finally, we have arrays like this:

`dp = [1, 3, 2, 6, 5, 2, -inf]`
`sp = [1, 3, 3, 6, 6, 6, 0]`

**Complexity**: time and space complexity is `O(n)`, where space complexity can be reduced to `O(1)`, because we use only `2` elements to the back.

```python
class Solution:
    def maxProfit(self, B, fee):
        if len(B) == 1: return 0
        n = len(B)
        
        dp, sp = [-float(inf)]*n, [0]*n

        for i in range(n-1):
            dp[i] = B[i+1] - B[i] + max(dp[i-1], sp[i-2] - fee)
            sp[i] = max(sp[i-1], dp[i])
             
        return sp[-2] 
```

Other buy and sell stock problems with my explanations:

**121: Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock**
**123. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock III**
**188. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock IV**
