---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0854 K-Similar Strings
tags: [bit-dp, dp, bit manipulation, graph]
---

#### Problem statement

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/k-similar-strings/"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/k-similar-strings/

#### Solution
Note similarity of this problem with Problem **0765** Couples Holding Hands, but here we have more $6$ different symbols. Let us look at this problem as to graph: for example if we have `A = abcde` and `B = bcaed`, then we need to find $2$ loops: $a\to b\to c\to a$ and $d\to e\to d$. In general we need to find minimum number of loops in directed graph on $m = 6$ nodes, where we can have multiple edges and we have $n$ edges. However it is still difficult problem and it is not obvious how to handle it.

Let us assign number to each letter: `a:1, b:32, c:$32^2$, $d:32^3$, e:$32^4$, f:$32^5$`. Now, we evaluate difference between corresponding elements of two strings, so for example for given example we have `[-31, -992, 1023, -1015808, 1015808]`. Now, finding loop is equivalent to group of elements which has $0$ when we sum them! Why? Because if some sum is equal to zero, it means, that numbers in both sets are equal:we choose $32$ > $20$, length of our string): indeed, imagine, that we have set of numbers with sum $0$, it means:
$$\alpha_0 \cdot 1 + \alpha_1\cdot 32 + \dots + \alpha_5\cdot 32^5 = \beta_0 \cdot 1 + \beta\cdot 32 + \dots + \beta\cdot 32^5,$$
where $\alpha_0, \dots, \alpha_5$ is corresponding number of `a, b, c, d, e, f`, similar for betas. From here we have
$$ \gamma_0 \cdot 1 + \gamma_1\cdot 32 + \dots + \gamma_5\cdot 32^5 = 0,$$ where $\gamma_i = \alpha_i - \beta_i \in [-20, 20]$. If we consider not biggest $\gamma_i$ which is not equal to $0$, then sum of all other terms is smaller than this term, so it means that all $\gamma_i$ equal to zero, that is we have the same set of letters.

Actually, this is almost equivalent to Problem **0465** Optimal Account Balancing Optimal Account Balancing, and to Problem **0698** Partition to K Equal Sum Subsets. 


#### Complexity
Time complexity is $O(2^n\cdot n)$ and space complexity is $O(2^n)$.

To be accepted on Leetcode, we need to make couple of optimizations: first of all, if two symbols on the same place are equal, we just remove them. Also if we have loop of length $2$ we also remove it: here I use trick, where we intersect count for `nums` and list with all opposite numbers from `nums`. Then for each element we repeat it as much times as needed and delete from our list.

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def kSimilarity(self, A, B):
        nums = [((1<<ord(i)*5) - (1<<ord(j)*5))>>(97*5) for i,j in zip(A,B) if i!=j] 

        Cnt = Counter(nums) & Counter(-n for n in nums)
        pairs = list(chain(*([i]*j for i, j in Cnt.items())))
        for num in pairs: nums.remove(num)
        
        n = len(nums)
        
        dp = [(-1,0)] * (1<<n)
        dp[0] = (0, 0)

        for mask in range(1<<n):
            for j in range(n):
                if mask & (1<<j):
                    steps, summ = dp[mask ^ (1<<j)]
                    dp[mask] = max(dp[mask], (steps + (summ==0), summ + nums[j]))

        return n - dp[-1][0] + len(pairs)//2
```
