---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0895. Maximum Frequency Stack
permalink: /Leetcode Problems/0895/
---

### Solution 1, using SortedList

 There is solution with complexity `O( log n)` for pop and push. We will keep 3 pieces of information:
1. `self.SList` is sorted list, where we keep tuples of `3` numbers: frequency, number itself and biggest index we have for this number.
2. `self.Places` is defaultdict, where for each num we keep all indexes.
3. `self.N` number of element we push into our data structure. Note, that we do not decrease this number, only increase.

Now, how function will work:
1. `push(self, x)`: first, we check frequency of new element and update it: we remove tuple from our sorted list and put updated frequency. We also add new index to `self.Places[x]` and update `self.N`
2. `pop(self)`: we pop last element from our sorted list: it will be what we wanted. If frequency of extracted element is `2` or more, than we need to put element with updated frequency to our sorted list. Also we remove last element from `self.Places`.

**Complexity**: all operations which we use when we work with sorted list have complexity `O(log n)`, so final complexity of both `push` and `pop` is just `O(log n)`

```
from sortedcontainers import SortedList

class FreqStack:
    def __init__(self):
        self.SList = SortedList()   #(freq, num, last)
        self.Places = defaultdict(list)  #num -> all indexes
        self.N = 0

    def push(self, x):
        freq_x = len(self.Places[x])
        if freq_x > 0: self.SList.remove((freq_x, self.Places[x][-1], x))
        self.SList.add((freq_x + 1, self.N, x))
        self.Places[x].append(self.N)
        self.N += 1
        
    def pop(self):
        freq, end, num = self.SList.pop()
        self.Places[num].pop()
        if freq > 1: self.SList.add((freq - 1, self.Places[num][-1], num))
        return num
```

### Solution 2: using stacks

There is also `O(1)` pop/push solution: let us look at it at the following example: we push into stack numbers`[0, 7, 3, 7, 8, 8, 8, 3, 4, 0]`. Then we will keep dictionary of stacks: `{1: [0, 7, 3, 8, 4], 2: [7, 8, 3, 0], 3: [8]}`. What is logic behind this? We have 3 items to keep:

1. `self.freq`: frequencies of each element
2. `self.stacks`: stack for each `frequency`, note that it is not stack for each element with indexes, but something different: for each frequency we will keep elements we have with this frequency in the order like in original stack.
`self.maxfreq` is maximal frequency.

Now, how functions will work:

1. `push(self, x)`: when we add new element, first we need to increase it frequency. If new frequency is more than maximum frequency we have, we update it. Finally, we update our `self.stacks` for new element: put it to the end of stack.
2. `pop(self)`: first of all, element we are looking for is last element in `self.stacks[self.maxfreq]`, so we pop it. Also we need to decrease frequency of this element. Finally, if number of elements with highest frequency equal to `0`, we can remove this stack. Then we return `x`.

**Complexity**: each operation we do have just `O(1)` complexity, so both `push` and `pop` work just in `O(1)`.

```
class FreqStack:
    def __init__(self):
        self.freq = Counter()
        self.stacks = defaultdict(list)
        self.maxfreq = 0

    def push(self, x):
        freq_x = self.freq[x] + 1
        self.freq[x] = freq_x
        self.maxfreq = max(self.maxfreq, freq_x)
        self.stacks[freq_x].append(x)

    def pop(self):
        x = self.stacks[self.maxfreq].pop()
        self.freq[x] -= 1
        if not self.stacks[self.maxfreq]: self.maxfreq -= 1
        return x
```