---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0902. Numbers At Most N Given Digit Set
tags: [digit build, math]
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/numbers-at-most-n-given-digit-set"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/numbers-at-most-n-given-digit-set

This is one of those numbers problems, where we need to go digit by digit and count number of good number. Let me explain what I mean by that: imagine, that we have number `n = 314792` and `digits = [1,3,5,7]`, then we can split all numbers which are less or equal to `n` to several groups.

1. `n` itself: `314792`.
2. Numbers, which have form `31479?`, where question mark can be any number **less** than `2` and in our `digits` array.
3. Numbers, which have form `3147?*`, where question mark can be any number **less** than `9` and * mark means any digit from `digits`.
4. Numbers, which have form `314?**`, where question mark can be any number **less** than 7 and * again means any digit from `digits`.
5. Numbers, which have form `31?***`.
6. Numbers, which have form `3?****`.
7. Numbers, which have form `?*****`.
8. Finally, numbers which have form `*****`, `****`, `***`, `**`, `*`.

We can note, that we need to evaluate several times number of digits in `digits` which are less than some digit `2`, `9`, `7` and so on. We can just precompute array `up` for this purpuse. Also let `T` be number of our `digits`, `str_n` will be string created from `n`, `k` be length of this string and `d_set` be set of all `digits`.

What we need to do in main part of my algorithm:
1. Iterate from digit to digit, starting with `i = 0`.
2. Check if number constructed from first `i` digits have only `digits` inside: see step `4`: there we have numbers, starting with `314` and they can not be good. On step `5` however numbers start with `31` and it is OK for us.
3. Add `up[int(str_n[i])]` multiplied by `T` to the power `k-i-1` to our answer: just combinatorics to choose candidates for `?` place and for `*` place.
4. Finally, we need to deal with the last case: numbers with less number of digits and with first case: number `n` itself.

**Complexity**: time complexity is `O(10k + T)`, where `k` is lenght of our number `n` and `k` is lenght of `digits`.  Actually, it can be just written as `O(T)`, because `10k <= 100` always. Space complexity is `O(T)`.

```python
class Solution:
    def atMostNGivenDigitSet(self, digits, n):
        up, ans, T, str_n = [0]*10, 0, len(digits), str(n)
        for i in range(10):
            for dig in digits:
                up[i] += (dig < str(i))
        
        k, d_set = len(str_n), set(digits)
        for i in range(k):
            if i > 0 and str_n[i-1] not in d_set: break
            ans += up[int(str_n[i])] * T**(k-i-1)
        
        addon = (T**k - 1)//(T-1) - 1 if T != 1 else k - 1
        return ans + addon + (not set(str_n) - set(digits))
```

If you like the solution, you can **upvote** it on leetcode discussion section:<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/numbers-at-most-n-given-digit-set/discuss/943592/python-math-solution-explained"> <font color = blue>Problem 0902
