---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0968. Binary Tree Cameras
tags: [tree, dp, dfs]
---

#### Problem statement

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-cameras/"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-cameras/

#### Solution
In by opition, this is really nice problem on the edge of two topics: binary trees and dynamic programming. We need to traverse our tree in some way and keep some information in nodes. We can say that we use here **postorder** traversal: to get the answer for some `node`, we first collect answers for its children and then construct answer for `node`. We will keep `3` pieces of information in each node:

1. `q1`: minimum number of cameras for subtree if we put camera on this node
2. `q2`: minimum number of cameras for subtree if we do not put camera on this node
3. `q3`: minimum number of cameras for subtree, not including node itself, that is `node` **is not covered**

First of all, the border cases: if we reached `None` node, `q1` will be infinite, because we need to put camera on not-existing node, `q2` and `q3` are equal to `0`.

Then we calculate values for the left subtree: `q1_l, q2_l, q3_l` and for the right subtree `q1_r, q2_r, q3_r`.

1. How we can evaluate `q1` now? By definition it is number of cameras for subtree if we put camera on this node. We also need to cover `left` and `right` subtrees fully. For left subtree we can choose `q1_l` or `q2_l` or `q3_l` options, but in fact `q2_l` is always bigger or equal then `q3_l`, so we can choose only among two options. The same logic is for the right subtree. Note, that it was important here to have `q3-s` values, because we do not really need to cover left and right children, then already covered by `node` (but also we can not say we need to use `q3` always, there are greedy algorithms that works, but not like this)
2. How we can evaluate `q2` now? By definition we are not allowed to put camera on `Node`, so we need to fully cover left and right subtree. We can not use any `q3_l` or `q3_r`, because we will have gap in this case. We can use any from `q1_l, q2_l` for the left subtree and any from `q1_r, q2_r` for the right subtree, so we will choose minimum from `4` combinations However we need to remove case `q2_l + q2_r`, because in this case `node` will not be covered.
3. Howe we can evaluate `q3` now? As I mentionend, `q3` ia always not smaller than `q2`, so one of the options is to just take `q2`. Or we can take `q2_l + q2_r`. Why? By definition we do not need to cover `node`. So for the left and right nodes we just need to cover all subtrees, but also we do not need to cover `node` itself, so `q2_l` and `q2_r` are enough. Note, that we can not use `q1_l` or `q1_r` here, because we will break the condition of **not cover node**

#### Complexity
Time complexity is `O(n)` for traverse all the tree, space complexity is `O(h)`, where `h` is the height of the tree.

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def minCameraCover(self, root):
        def dfs(node):
            if not node: return (float("inf"), 0, 0)
            q1_l, q2_l, q3_l = dfs(node.left)
            q1_r, q2_r, q3_r = dfs(node.right)
            q1 = min(q1_l, q3_l) + min(q1_r, q3_r) + 1
            q2 = min(q1_l + q1_r, q1_l + q2_r, q2_l + q1_r)
            q3 = min(q2, q2_l + q2_r)
            return (q1, q2, q3)
            
        return min(dfs(root)[:2])   
```