---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0992 Subarrays with K Different Integers
tags: [sliding window, two pointers]
---

#### Problem statement

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/subarrays-with-k-different-integers/"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/subarrays-with-k-different-integers/

#### Solution
The idea is the following: for each ending point let us find the length of the longest window with exactly `K` different integers and the length of the shortest window with exactly `K` different integers.

We will use sliding window approach here:
1. First, we define `beg` and `end` pointers equal to `0`. `vals` is counter of values inside window and `diff` is number of different values in window.
2. On each step we move `end` pointer one point to the right and update `vals` and `diff`
3. On the next step we move `beg` pointer to the right until number of different integers inside window becomes `<= K` (or `<= K-1` in another pass).
4. For the first pass `window(K + 1)` we continue to expand our window to the left while we have `K` or less different symbols inside. Because we stopped one step later, we assign `out[end] = end - beg + 1` is the length of longest window ending with `end` point. 

    For the second pass `window(K)` we continue to expand our window to the left while we have `K-1` symbols or less, so here we stop just at the moment when we have `K` symbols first time, so we need to add `1` later.
    
    Finally, when we calculate for each `end` how many windows we have, it is exactly difference between two previously calculated numbers. Imagine, that we have `[1, 2, 1, 2, 3]` for example. Then for `end = 3` we have the smallest window ends with this place is `[1, 2]` and the longest is `[1, 2, 1, 2]`, so we have in total `3` windows, which can be evaluated as `4 - 1 = 4 - 2 + 1`, where `4` is length of the longest window, `2` is length of the shortest window and `+1` because between `a` and `b` there is `b - a + 1` numbers. 

#### Complexity
Both time and space complexity is `O(n)`.

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def subarraysWithKDistinct(self, A, K):
        def window(K):
            beg, end, vals, diff = 0, 0, Counter(), 0
            out = [None]*n
            while end < n:
                vals[A[end]] += 1
                if vals[A[end]] == 1: diff += 1
                
                while diff >= K:
                    if vals[A[beg]] == 1: diff -= 1
                    vals[A[beg]] -= 1
                    beg += 1

                out[end] = end - beg + 1
                end += 1
                 
            return sum(out)
        
        n = len(A)
        return window(K+1) - window(K)
```

