---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0994. Rotting Oranges
tags: [bfs]
---

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/rotting-oranges"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/rotting-oranges

This is graph traversal problem, so here we have a choise: to use `dfs` or to use `bfs`. What is asked: minimum number of minutes passed until there is no fresh orange. In graphs it means to find the greatest distance from rotten oranges to any other orange. Usually, if we need to find the distances, we use `bfs`. So, let me define my variables:

1. `m` and `n` are dimensions of our `grid`, also we have `queue` to run our `bfs` and also we want to count number of fresh oranges: we need this to check in the end if all oranges become rotten or not.
2. We put all rotten oranges coordinates to our `queue`, so we are going to start from all of them. Also we count number of fresh oranges.
3. Define directions we can go: four of them and put `levels = 0`.

Now, we traverse our `grid`, using `bfs`, using level by level traversal: it means, that each time, when we have some elements in `queue`, we popleft all of them and put new neighbours to the end. In this way each time we reach line `levels += 1`, we have nodes with distance which is `1` bigger than previous level. In the end `levels - 1` will be our answer, because one time in the end when we do not have anythin to add, `levels` still be incremented by one.

Finally, we check if we still have fresh oranges, and if yes, return `-1`. If not, we need to return `max(levels-1, 0)`, because it can happen, that our queue was empty in the beginning and we do not need to subtract `1`.

**Complexity**: time complexity is `O(mn)`, because we first traverse our grid to fill `queue` and found number of fresh oranges. Then we use classical `bfs`, so each node will be added and removed from `queue` at most `1` time. Space complexity is also can be `O(mn)`, we can have for example `O(mn)` rotten oranges in the very beginnig.

```python
class Solution:
    def orangesRotting(self, grid):
        m, n, queue, fresh = len(grid), len(grid[0]), deque(), 0
        for i,j in product(range(m), range(n)):
            if grid[i][j] == 2: queue.append((i,j))
            if grid[i][j] == 1: fresh += 1
        dirs = [[1,0],[-1,0],[0,1],[0,-1]]
        levels = 0
        
        while queue:
            levels += 1
            for _ in range(len(queue)):
                x, y = queue.popleft()
                for dx, dy in dirs:
                    if 0<=x+dx<m and 0<=y+dy<n and grid[x+dx][y+dy] == 1:
                        fresh -= 1
                        grid[x+dx][y+dy] = 2
                        queue.append((x+dx, y+dy))
                        
        return -1 if fresh != 0 else max(levels-1, 0)
```

If you like the solution, you can **upvote** it on leetcode discussion section:<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/rotting-oranges/discuss/781642/python-clean-bfs-solution-explained"> <font color = blue>Problem 0994
