---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 1354. Construct Target Array With Multiple Sums
tags: [heap, greedy]
---

#### Problem statement

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/construct-target-array-with-multiple-sums/"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/construct-target-array-with-multiple-sums/

#### Solution
It is not clear at all, what to do if we start from `[1, ..., 1]` and move towards `target` list. However if we reverse our process, each step will be unique. Imagine, that we have `[1, 3, 5]`. What step we can do backwards: there is not choice: we need to take the biggest value `5` and subtract sum of all other elements from this value: `5 - (3 + 1) = 1`, so on the next step we have `[1, 3, 1]`. Note also that it does not matter what order our numbers in list are, actually what matters are two values on each step:
1. The biggest element in our list.
2. The sum of all elements in our list.

The ideal data structure for this is **heap**: note, that we will put negative elements inside, because we need `max`, not `min`.

Finally, our algorithm will look like this:

1. Put all negative elements to **heap** and evaluate sum **s** of all elements.
2. Start to do steps: extract the biggest elements `elem`. If it is equal to `1`, we are good: it means, that all smaller elements also equal to `1` and we can return `True`. If it happen that `s == elem`, it means that we actually have only one element in `target`, and it is not equal to `1`: we can not do anything with it, so we return `False`.
3. Next, we need to put new element in our heap. And here we have another subtle point: imagine, that we have `[100, 3]`. Then on the next step we have `[97, 3]`, then `[94, 3]` and so on. In the given example we need only `33` steps to converge, however if we have `[10000000, 1]` we will get TLE for sure. Note, that what we did is similar to one step of **Eucledian algorithm**, there is classical improvement, where instead of `(m, n) -> (m-n, n)` step we do `(m, n) -> (m%n, n)` step. Note also, that in the case `[99, 3]` we want to stop on `[3, 3]`, not going to `[0, 3]`, so we need to modify step a bit: I did it using `cand = (elem - 1) % (s - elem) + 1`. Here `s - elem` is sum of all elements except `elem`.
4. Check if `cand == elem` and if it is the case, it means, that we can not do the step, so we are stuch and we return `False`.
5. Finally, we update `s`: subtract `elem` and add new element `cand` and push `-cand` to our heap.

#### Complexity
This is the most interesting part for me. Let us look at Eucledian algorithm first, say with numbers `(34, 21)`. Why I choose these numbers? They are Fibonacci numbers, and it happens that for these values Eucledian algorithm will work the slowest: `(34, 21) -> (21, 13) -> (13, 8) -> (8, 5) -> (5, 3) -> (3, 2) -> (2,1)`. Working time for it will be `O(log(m+n))`. Note, this is not a proof I gave here, but just intuition, for more details please check wikipedia.

So, what is the final complexity of our problem? I believe it is `O(n + n*log n + log T * log n)`, where `n` is the size of `target` and `T` is the biggest number among `target`, however I do not have proof for this at the moment. Space complexity is `O(n)`.

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def isPossible(self, target):
        heap = []
        for num in target: heappush(heap, -num)
        s = sum(target)
        while True:
            elem = -heappop(heap)
            if elem == 1: return True
            if s == elem: return False
            cand = (elem - 1) % (s - elem) + 1
            if cand == elem: return False
            s = s - elem + cand
            heappush(heap, -cand)
```