---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 1383. Maximum Performance of a Team
tags: [heap, sort, greedy, array]
---

#### Problem statement

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-performance-of-a-team/"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-performance-of-a-team/

#### Solution
Let us look at pairs `(efficiency, speed)`. Then what we can do first is to sort data by efficiency, starting from the biggest one and add element by element in our active set. By active set I mean the set of workers which efficiency is bigger than some given number. When we iterate through our data, active set can only be increasing: elements will be added, but never removed. At each moment of time we will ask the question: given smallest element in group of workers equal to say `eff`, what is the biggest performance we can get?

1. We will keep our active set in `heap`: priority queue, because at each moment of time we need to choose `k` workers with the biggest efficiencies.
2. `sm` is the sum of elements in our heap, `ans` is variable for our answer.
3. We iterate over elements going from the highest efficiency and do the following steps:
3.1 Check if we have too much elements in our heap: if we have, remove the smallest one.
3.2 Add element to heap. At this stage we will have no more than `k` elements.
3.3 Update our `sm`: subtract popped element if needed and add new element
3.4 Update `ans` as maximum among `ans` and `sm * eff`, because by our construction `eff` is the smallest efficiency among our group.

#### Complexity
Let `n` be the length of `S` and `E`. Then we need `O(n log n)` to sort our data, then we need `O(n log k)` to work with heap updates. So overall time complexity is `O(n log n + n log k)`. Space complexity is `O(n + k)`.

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def maxPerformance(self, n, S, E, k):
        sm, ans, heap = 0, 0, []
        
        for eff, speed in sorted(zip(E, S))[::-1]:
            if len(heap) > k - 1: sm -= heappop(heap)
            heappush(heap, speed)
            sm += speed
            ans = max(ans, sm*eff)
        
        return ans % (10**9 + 7)
```