---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 1396. Design Underground System
permalink: /Leetcode Problems/1396/
---

The main difficulty of this problem is very long statement, and probably you will spend more time understanding what is asked that to code it. So, what we have here. We have several persons, defined by `id`, which Check In at some `station` and some `time` and then Check Out from some other station at another time. We need to calculate times this person spend to go from one station to another and then calculate average time for all persons. Let us keep 3 pieces of information:

1. `self.ids` is dictionary, where for each person(id) we will keep pair `(station, time)` if the last action this person did is check In and empty if it was check OUt
2. `self.pairs` is counter, where for each pair of stations we keep total time spend between two stations.
3. `self.freqs` is counter, where for each pair of stations we keep how many trips we have between these two stations.

Now, let us discuss, what our functions will do:
1. `checkIn(self, id, stationName, t)`: we just put pair `(stationName, t)` into `self.ids[id]`.
2. `checkOut(self, id, stationName, t)`. Here we look at person `id`, extract information about his last station visited (pop it from `self.ids[id]` and update `self.pairs`, `self.freqs` for these pairs of stations.
3. `getAverageTime(self, startStation, endStation)`: here we just look at dictionaries `self.pairs` and `self.freqs` and directly return result.

**Complexity**: time compexlty is `O(1)` for all `3` operations. Space complexity potentially is `O(Q)`, where `Q` is toatl number of queries.

```
class UndergroundSystem:
    def __init__(self):
        self.ids = {}
        self.pairs = Counter()
        self.freqs = Counter()
        
    def checkIn(self, id, stationName, t):
        self.ids[id] = (stationName, t)

    def checkOut(self, id, stationName, t):
        Name2, t2 = self.ids.pop(id)
        self.pairs[(Name2, stationName)] += t-t2
        self.freqs[(Name2, stationName)] += 1
        
    def getAverageTime(self, startStation, endStation):
        return self.pairs[startStation, endStation]/self.freqs[startStation, endStation]
```