---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 1642. Furthest Building You Can Reach
tags: [binary search, heap]
---

#### Problem statement

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/furthest-building-you-can-reach/"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/furthest-building-you-can-reach/

#### Solution
This is not the most optimal solution, but I think it is useful in educational purposes. The idea is to ask question:

`given our bricks and ladders, can we reach building number k?`

If we know in advance, what buildings we have and what gaps between them we need to cover, we can do it in greedy way: consider `to_climb` is the list of all positive gaps (we are not interested in negative gaps at all), and then we use ladders for the biggest `L` of them (`L` is number of ladders) and for all others we try to use bricks.

Now, we can see, that answers for questions, can we reach `1`-st building, can we reach `2`-nd building and so on will be in the form:

`True, True, ... True, True, False, False, ..., False, ...`

That is if we can reach some building `k`, we can reach all previous buildings as well. The question asked is what is the maximum number of building we can reach and **binary search** is ideal to deal with this problem. I also add infinitely tall building in the end and then just run BS, asking question `isReach`

#### Complexity
Time complexity is `O(n * log n * log n)`, because we have range of length `n` to our binary search and each `isReach` problem can be solved in `O(n log n)`. Space complexity is `O(n)`.

#### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def furthestBuilding(self, H, bricks, L):
        H += [float("inf")]

        def isReach(k):
            to_climb = [y - x for y, x in zip(H[1:k+1], H[:k+1]) if y-x > 0]
            return len(to_climb) <= L or sum(sorted(to_climb)[::-1][L:]) <= bricks
    
        beg, end = 0, len(H) - 1
        while beg + 1 < end:
            mid = (beg + end)//2
            if isReach(mid):
                beg = mid
            else:
                end = mid
        return beg
```

#### Remarks
When you see complexity like this it is often (but not always) the indicator, that complexity is not optimal: we have two logarithmic factors. Indeed, there exists solution with heaps: while we traverse our buildings, we keep in the heap the `L` biggest gaps we have so far. Each time when we have new positive gap, we put it to heap and extract one element from heap, the smallest one: we have no other choice but to use bricks for this gap. If in some moment of time we out of bricks, we return index we have. Time complexity will be `O(n log L)`.

```python
class Solution:
    def furthestBuilding(self, H, bricks, L):
        heap, n = [], len(H)

        for h1, h2, i in zip(H, H[1:], range(n)):
            if h2 - h1 > 0:
                heappush(heap, h2 - h1)
            if len(heap) > L:
                bricks -= heappop(heap)
            if bricks < 0:
                return i
            
        return n-1
```