---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 1681. Minimum Incompatibility
tags: [bit-dp, dp, bit manipulation]
---

#### Problem statement

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-incompatibility/"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-incompatibility/

#### Solution
We need to keep state in the form: `bitmask, last`, where:
1. `bitmask` is bitmask for all numbers already taken.
2. `last` is index of last taken number.

How are we going to form our groups: sort our numbers first and imagine we have numbers `[1,1,2,3,3,4]`: and `k = 3`. Then we need to create first group of `2` elements, for example it can be elements with indexes `1,2`, and we have current bitmask `011000`, then we need to form another group of `2` elements, for example it can be elements with indexes `0,5`, so we have bitmask `111001` now. Finally we put last two elements in last group. We can interpret it as TSP problem: we choose path `1->2->0->5->3->4`.  Note, that in each group we only choose increasing indexes, whereas between groups than can decrease (but can increase also).

Now, what we have in our algorithm:
1. We iterate over all possible `mask`
2. Calculate places, where we have `1` in this mask.
3. Now, we can have two cases: first, if `len(n_z_bits)%(n//k) == 1`: it means, that it is time to start new group, so we can choose any index we want, not neccecerily bigger than previous, so we choose `permutations` here: there will be exactly `t(t-1)/2` pairs and for each of them we update `dp[mask][l]`.
4. In other case, it means, that we need to continue to build our group, so next index should be bigger than previous and we choose `combinations` here. Also we check that new number is not equal to last one we have and again update `dp[mask][l]`.
5. Finally, we return minimum from `dp[-1]`.

#### Complexity
Time complexity is `O(n*n*2^n)` as TSP have: we have `2^n` bitmasks and we have `O(n^2)` time to process each mask. In python it is working not very fast, I can say it is barely accepted, so, I think there should be `O(n*2^n)` solution as well, if you know such solution (desirebly with explanations), please let me know!

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def minimumIncompatibility(self, nums, k):
        n = len(nums)
        if k == n: return 0
        dp = [[float("inf")] * n for _ in range(1<<n)] 
        nums.sort()
        for i in range(n): dp[1<<i][i] = 0

        for mask in range(1<<n):
            n_z_bits = [j for j in range(n) if mask&(1<<j)]
            if len(n_z_bits)%(n//k) == 1:
                for j, l in permutations(n_z_bits, 2):
                    dp[mask][l] = min(dp[mask][l], dp[mask^(1<<l)][j])
            else:
                for j, l in combinations(n_z_bits, 2):
                    if nums[j] != nums[l]:
                        dp[mask][j] = min(dp[mask][j], dp[mask^(1<<j)][l] + nums[l] - nums[j])
                        
        return min(dp[-1]) if min(dp[-1]) != float("inf") else -1
```
