---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 1719. Number Of Ways To Reconstruct A Tree
tags: []
---

Quite painful problem, to be honest. Not a lot of people managed to solve it during contest.

First idea we need to understand, is that `A pair [xi, yi] exists in pairs if and only if xi is an ancestor of yi or yi is an ancestor of xi.` Let us illustrate this on example of tree:

`5`
`| \`
`4 3`
`| \`
`1 2`

We will have pairs `[1, 4], [1, 5], [2,4], [2,5], [3,5], [4,5]`, that is **all** pairs with two nodes, on which is ancestor of another. What we can notice, if it is possible to create such a tree, that one node will be ancestor of **all other nodes**, that is in case, there will be pairs `[1, 5], [2, 5], [3, 5], [4, 5]`.

Now, let us go to the algorithm:

1. First, create graph from our pairs array.
2. Function `helper(nodes)` have input set of nodes and try to solve subproblem with this set. 
3. We discussed, that we need to find `node` which is connected with all other nodes, that is its degree should be equal to `m = len(nodes) - 1`.
4. If we did not found such a node, we can immedietly return `0`: it is not possible to recunstruct a tree.
5. If there is such a node, let us denote it `root`. Actually, it can happen that there is more than one node with this property and in this case any of them can be root and if we have say `U` possible solution with first of them being root, that there will be exactly `U` possible solutions if another will be root - we can just replace one of them with another.
6. Now, we clean our graph `g`: we remove all connections between `root` and all its neighbours (actually it is enough to cut only one way connections)
7. Next step is to perform `dfs` to find **connected components**.
8. Finally, we run our `helper` function on each of found components: if it happens that for some subproblem we have answer `0`, it means that for original problem we also need to return `0`. If `0` not here and we met `2` in our `cands`, than we return `2`: it means, that we found `2` or more solutions for some subproblems and 1 for others, like `cands = [1, 2, 1, 1, 2]`. In this case, we can be sure, that we have more than `2` solutions (in fact we have `1*2*1*1*2`). Finally, important point: if we have `len(d[m]) >= 2`, we also return `2` - see step `5`.

**Complexity**: this is the most interesting part. Imagine, that we have `n` nodes in our graph. Then on each step we split our data into several parts and run `helper` function recursively on each part, such that sum of sizes is equal to `n-1` on the first step and so on. So, each element in `helper(nodes)` can be used no more than `n` times, and we can estimate it as `O(n^2)`. Also, we need to consider `for node in g[root]: g[node].remove(root)` line, which for each run of `helper` can be estimated as `O(E)`, where `E` is total number of edges in `g`. Finally, there is part, where we look for connected components, which can be estimated as `O(E*n)`, because we will have no more than `n` levels of recursion and on each level we use each edge no more than `1` time. So, final time complexity is `O(E*n)`. I think, this estimate can be improved to `O(n^2)`, but I do not know at the moment, how to do it. Space complexity is `O(n^2)` to keep all stack of recursion.

```python
class Solution:
    def checkWays(self, P):
        g = defaultdict(set)
        for u, v in P:
            g[u].add(v)
            g[v].add(u)

        def helper(nodes):
            d, m = defaultdict(list), len(nodes) - 1
            for node in nodes:
                d[len(g[node])].append(node)

            if len(d[m]) == 0: return 0
            root = d[m][0]
            
            for node in g[root]: g[node].remove(root)
            
            comps, seen, i = defaultdict(set), set(), 0
            def dfs(node, i):
                comps[i].add(node)
                seen.add(node)
                for neib in g[node]:
                    if neib not in seen: dfs(neib, i)
                        
            for node in nodes:
                if node != root and node not in seen:
                    dfs(node, i)
                    i += 1
                    
            cands = [helper(comps[i]) for i in comps]
            if 0 in cands: return 0
            if 2 in cands: return 2
            if len(d[m]) >= 2: return 2
            return 1
            
        return helper(set(g.keys()))
```
