---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 1723. Find Minimum Time to Finish All Jobs
permalink: /Leetcode Problems/1723/
---

Not the fastest solution in python, but I think it is clean and it is easy to estimate its complexity.

Let us try to answer the following question first: given `basket` : working time for each worker, question is if we can allocate workers in such way, that each of them spend `<= basket` time. For example, if we have `jobs = [1, 2, 3, 5, 7]`, and `basket = 8`, then we can allocate workers as `[1, 7], [3, 5], [2]` and we need at least `3` workers here.

Let `dfs(mask, basket)` be function with parameters:
1. `mask` is binary mask of already used jobs
2. `basket` is how many time each of workers can spend
3. Answer will be tuple of numbers: first one is `minimum number of workers` and second one is how much time last worker already spent.

Let us discuss, how this function works in more details:
1. If `mask = 0`, then we can state that we need at least `1` worker and he spent `0` time.
2. For each `j in range(N)`, if we have this job inside bitmask, we look at all `dfs(mask - (1 << j), basket)`. We need to add jub number `j` now. If it happen, that we can not allocate it to the last worker, we need to hire one more worker. If we can, we allocate job to him.
3. Finaly, we return `min` over all possible last jobs we can make.

**Why this is working**. It is similar to Travelling Salesman Problem (TSP). It is also similar to problem **698** Partition to K Equal Sum Subsets. Idea is that it is always enough to have only bitmask of already visited jobs, not order.

So far we are able to answer question: given `basket`, how many workers we need to hire to finish all jobs. We need to find minimum value of `basket`, such that there will be `k` workers enough. Ideal choice here is binary search.

**Complexity**: we have `2^n` masks and `O(n)` transitions from one mask, so complexity of one run of `dfs` for given `basket` is `O(n*2^n)`. We run it `O(log M)` times, where `M` is sum of all `jobs`, so final time complexity is `2^n*n*log(M)`. Space complexity in given code is `2^n*log(M)`, which can be easily reduced to `2^n`.

**Further thought** As far as I aware, there is also `O(k*3^n)` complexity solution, I will code it later, but I think it will give TLE in python. There are also a lot of dfs solution with different pruning techniques, that are pretty good and working 5-50 times faster, depending on how you prune, but will you be able to explain complexity of those solution to interviewer?

```python
class Solution:
    def minimumTimeRequired(self, jobs, k):
        N = len(jobs)
        
        @lru_cache(None)
        def dfs(mask, basket):
            if mask == 0: return (1, 0)
            ans = (float("inf"), float("inf"))
            for j in range(N):
                if mask & (1<<j):
                    pieces, last = dfs(mask - (1 << j), basket)
                    full = (last + jobs[j] > basket)
                    ans = min(ans, (pieces + full, jobs[j] + (1-full)*last))  
            return ans 

        beg, end = max(jobs), sum(jobs)
        while beg < end:
            mid = (beg + end)//2
            if dfs((1<<N) - 1, mid)[0] >= k + 1:
                beg = mid + 1
            else:
                end = mid
        
        return beg
```