---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 1872. Stone Game VIII
tags: [dp, greedy]
---

#### Problem statement

<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/stone-game-viii/"> <font color = blue>https://leetcode.com/problems/stone-game-viii/

#### Solution
Let us look at numbers `a, b, c, d, e`, then on the next step we can have for example `a + b + c, d, e` and then `a + b + c + d + e`. Note, that on each step what we are actually have is some **prefix sum** as the first element. So, the problem can be reformulated in the following way: given some prefix sums `a + b, a + b + c, a + b + c + d, a + b + c + d + e` we have two players which play the following game: once number is taken, other player can take only the number to the right of this number.

Let us now use the idea of **dynamic programming**: let say `dp[i]` be the maximum gain we can have if we take number with index `i` and then we play optimally. However in this case we will have `O(n^2)` complexity, which is too big for this problem. Instead we start from the last element and go in the opposite direction. Imagine, that w have `-1, 2, -3, 4, -5`, then we work with prefix sums `1, -2, 2, -3`. 

1. On the first step we have `-3`, that is we have answer `-3` for the last element, we do not have choice.
2. On the second step we have new number `2`, and we need to look at the biggest among `ans, num - ans` number. Why though. By definition we are trying to find the best gain we can have if we take number `2`. So, what is the strategy for the opposite player? To choose the bigest possible gain. 
3. We have `5` still.
4. We have `5` still.

**More explanations**. Why it is optimal to take `ans = max(ans, num - ans)` on the each step? What we keep in `ans` is the maximum gain we can have if we start somewhere in the `[i, end]` range. Then how we can calculate value for `i-1`? We can either take this number, then we gain its value `num`, but we understand that other player will play optimally and gain `ans`, so we have difference `num - ans` in this case. Or we can not take this element, then we do not change our turn and we can gain `ans`.

#### Complexity
Time complexity is `O(n)`, space complexity is `O(1)`

#### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def stoneGameVIII(self, stones):
        ans = sum(stones)
        for num in list(accumulate(stones))[::-1][1:-1]:
            ans = max(ans, num - ans)
        return ans
```

#### Oneliner
```python
return reduce(lambda m, c : max(m, c - m), list(accumulate(stones))[::-1][:-1])
```