---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0131. Palindrome Partitioning
permalink: /Leetcode Problems/0131/
---

First thing we need to see when we look at problem description, that `n` is pretty small, no more than `15`, and it is done for reason: we will see in our complexity analysis why. Let us use function `find_all_palindromes`, where:

1. `s` is input string, imagine `abacc`.
2. Output is lengths of biggest palindromes for each of the `2n-1` possible middles. Why there is `2n-1`? Because it can be either letter or in between letters.
3. Here I use very simple way to find all palindromes: just consider every possible substring, there will be `O(n^2)` of them and check in `O(n)` if it is palindrome. Total complexity of this step is `O(n^3)`, but we do not care here: complexity of the next step will be much bigger.

Now, let us `dp[i+1]` be solution for `s[:i]`. How we can find `dp[i+1]`? We need to iterate over all `k in range (0, N)`: possible starts of last palindrome and check `if B[2*i-k+1] >= k`: this condition means that `s[i-k: i+1]` is palindrome: so now we just iterate over all solutions for `dp[i-k]` and add this string to the end of solutions. Why I prefer here `dp` solution, not backtracking, because it is more universal and you can solve **132. Palindrome Partitioning II** just changing code a bit.

**Comlexity**: as we discussed, complexity of finding all palindromes is `O(n^3)`. Now, imagine we have string `aaa...aa` with length `n`. Then there will be exactly `2^(n-1)` ways to split this string in palindromes: we can cut it in any of `n-1` places. So, there will be `O(2^n* n)` time and space to keep solution for `s`. Also we keep solution for all prefixes of `s`, but we have `O(2^n * n + 2^(n-1)*(n-1) + ...)` which is still `O(2^n * n)`. Space complexity is the same: we need this amount of memory just to keep answer.

**Remark** I ran this code 6 months ago and it was around 60-70ms, now it is 600-700ms, this means, that leetcode added new tests and histogram is not relevant at the moment. Do not be discouraged whey you see something like  faster than 10%, it is not true.

**Remark2** Note again, that `find_all_palindromes(s)` has complexity `O(n^3)` here, and there is `O(n^2)` and even `O(n)` algorithms for this. But if you change this part, difference will be negligible: you can try and will see.

```
class Solution:
    def partition(self, s):
        def find_all_palindromes(s):
            B = [0] * (2*n)
            for i, j in combinations_with_replacement(range(n), 2):
                if s[i:j+1] == s[i:j+1][::-1]:
                    B[i+j+1] = max(B[i+j+1], j-i+1)
            return B
        
        n = len(s)
        B = find_all_palindromes(s)
        
        dp = [[] for _ in range(n+1)]
        dp[0] = [[]]
        for i in range(0, n):
            for k in range(0, i+1):
                if B[2*i-k+1] >= k:
                    for elem in dp[i-k]:
                        dp[i + 1].append(elem  + [s[i-k:i+1]])

        return dp[-1]
```