---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0395. Longest Substring with At Least K Repeating Characters
permalink: /Leetcode Problems/0395/
---

First of all, be careful with this problem formulation: Given a string s and an integer k, return the length of the longest substring of s such that the frequency of each character in this substring <del>**is less than or equal to k** </del>: this is not correct statement, what you actually asked is **is more than or equal to k**. I spend some time figuring it out.

Now, we will use sliding window approach to find the window of biggest length. However, it is not that easy. Imagine, that we have `s = aabbb...` and `k = 3`, what should we do when we reached window `aabbb`: should we expand it to the right hoping that we will meet another `a`? Or should we start to move left side of our window? One way to handle this problem is to do several sliding windows passes, where we fix `T` number of different symbols we must have in our substring. So, we check all posible `T = 1, ... 26` (if fact, not 26, but `len(Counter(s)) + 1)`) and do sliding window pass:

1. Initialize `beg = 0`, `end = 0`, `Found = 0`: number of elements with frequency more or equal than `k`,  `freq` is array of frequencies `= [0]*26` and `MoreEqK = 0`, which count number of non-zero frequencies in our `freq` array.
2. Now, we check if `MoreEqK <=T` or not, that is we have `T` or less different symbols in our window: then we can add element to to right part of our sliding window: we increase its frequency, if this symbol is new, that is frequency become equal to `1`, we increment `MoreEqK`. Also, if frequency become equal to `k`, we increment `Found`.
3. In opposite case it means, that we already have `T+1` or more different symbols in or window, so we need to move left side of our sliding window. Again, we check if frequency was equal to `k` and if it was, we decrease `Found` by one, if frequency become equal to zero, we decrease `MoreEqK`.
4. Finally, if we have exactly `T` non-zero frequencies and all `T` of them more or equal than `k`, we update our `result`.

**Complexity**: time complexity is `O(26n)`, because we can potentially have `26` passes over our data. Space complexity is `O(26)`. Yes, I understand, that `O(26n) = O(n)`, but here I want to stress that constant is quite big.

```
class Solution:
    def longestSubstring(self, s, k):
        result = 0
        for T in range(1, len(Counter(s))+1):
            beg, end, Found, freq, MoreEqK = 0, 0, 0, [0]*26, 0
            while end < len(s):
                if MoreEqK <= T:
                    s_new = ord(s[end]) - 97
                    freq[s_new] += 1
                    if freq[s_new] == 1:
                        MoreEqK += 1
                    if freq[s_new] == k:
                        Found += 1
                    end += 1
                else:
                    symb = ord(s[beg]) - 97
                    beg += 1
                    if freq[symb] == k:
                        Found -= 1
                    freq[symb] -= 1
                    if freq[symb] == 0:
                        MoreEqK -= 1
                            
                if MoreEqK == T and Found == T:
                    result = max(result, end - beg)
                    
        return result
```