---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0458. Poor Pigs
permalink: /Leetcode Problems/0458/
---

What matters is number of tests `T` and number of pigs `x`. Let us ask inverse question: how many states can we generate with `x` pigs and `T` tests to cover `N` scenarios? This is **estimation + example** problem, where we need to 1) prove, that we can not make `N` bigger than some number and 2) give an example, where this `N` is possible. 

**Estimation**: The number of states is exactly `(T+1)^x` and here is why. For each pig during `T` tests, it has exactly `T+1` states: dies at some test `#i`, where `1<= i <= T)` or still alive eventually. For `x` pigs, obviously the maximum possible number of states we could have is `(T+1)^x` since each is independent and one pig can not influence on another one. 

**Example**: From other side, we can construct the example, using `(T+1)` based numbers: at first test for `i`-th pig choose all numbers, where `i`-th digit is `0`. If all pigs are dead, we can immediately say what bucket was poisoned. If `k` pigs are alive, there will be `T^k` possible options for `T-1` days and `k` pigs, which can be solved, using induction. For better understanding, imaging the special case: let us have `x=3` pigs and `T=2` tests. Then our plan is the following:

We have `27` different positions: 
`000 001 002`        `100 101 102`        `200 201 202`              
`010 011 012`        `110 111 112`        `210 211 212`
`020 021 022`        `120 121 122`        `220 221 222`

On the first test, first pig will drink from first `9` bucktes: `000, 001, 002, 010, 011, 012, 020, 021, 022`, if it is not dead, on the second test it drink from the second `9` buckets `100, 101, 102, 110, 111, 112, 120, 121, 122`. Why we choose this bucktes? Because for the first group it always starts with `0` and second always starts with `1`. What can be our results?

1. This pig dies after first test, so we can conclude, that our bucket has form `0**`.
2. This pig dies after second test, so we can conclude, that our bucket has form `1**`.
3. It will not die at all (lucky bastard), then our bucket has form `2**`.

So, what was the purpuse of first pig? To understand the first digit in our bucket number.

No, let us look at the second pig: we do very similar procedure for it: on the first test it will drink from the `9` buckets from first line: `000, 001, 002, 100, 101, 102, 200, 201, 202`: all buckets with second number equal to `0`, on the second test, it will drink from `010, 011, 012, 110, 111, 112, 210, 211, 212`: from all buckets with second number equel to `1`. We again can do the following inference:

1. This pig dies after first test, so we can conclude, that our bucket has form `*0*`.
2. This pig dies after second test, so we can conclude, that our bucket has form `*1*`.
3. It will not die at all (lucky bastard), then our bucket has form `*2*`.

Finally, we have the third pig, which help us to understand if we have `**0`, `**1` or `**2`.

Looking at all information we have now about the frist, the second and the third digits in our bucket number we can say what bucket we have!

**Complexity**: it is just `O(1)` time and space if we assume that we can evaluate `log` in `O(1)` time.

```
class Solution:
    def poorPigs(self, buckets, minutesToDie, minutesToTest):
        return ceil(log(buckets)/log(minutesToTest//minutesToDie + 1))
```