---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0526. Beautiful Arrangement
permalink: /Leetcode Problems/0526/
---

We can use usual backtracking and count answer, but potentially it is quite expensive,  like `O(n!)`. 

Alternative approach is to use dynamic programming with bitmasks. The idea is to use function `dfs(bm, pl)`, where:
1. `bm` is binary mask for visited numbers.
2. `pl` is current place we want to fill. Idea is to start from the end, and fill places in opposite direction, because for big numbers we potentially have less candidates. (if we start form `pl = 0` and go in increasing direction, then it is also will work fine, like `120ms` vs `60ms`)

Now, let us discuss how `dfs(bm, pl)` will work:
1. If we reached place `0` and procces was not interrupted so far, it means that we find beautiful arrangement.
2. For each number `1, 2, ..., N` we try to put this number on place `pl`: and we need to check two conditions: first, that this place is still empty, using bitmask and secondly that one of the two properties for beutiful arrangement holds. In this case we add `dfs(bm^1<<i, pl - 1)` to final answer.
3. Finally, we run `dfs(0, N)`: from the last place and with empty bit-mask.

**Complexity**: First of all, notice that we have `2^N` possible options for `bm`, `N` possible options for `pl`. But in all we have only `2^N` states: `pl` is uniquely defined by number of nonzero bits in `bm`. Also we have `N` possible moves from one state to another, so time complexity is `O(N*2^N)`. Space complexity is `O(2^N)`.

```python
class Solution:
    def countArrangement(self, N):
        @lru_cache(None)
        def dfs(bm, pl):
            if pl == 0: return 1
                
            S = 0
            for i in range(N):
                if not bm&1<<i and ((i+1)%pl == 0 or pl%(i+1) == 0):
                    S += dfs(bm^1<<i, pl - 1)
            return S
                
        return dfs(0, N)
```

**Remark**: this is so-called **dynamic programming on subsets problem**, which has similar ideas with TSP (travelling salesman problem). Usually you can recoginze these problems if dimension of data is around `10-20`. Here is the list of similar problems on leetcode I found so far:

**Problem 465** Optimal Account Balancing

**Problem 473** Matchsticks to Square

**Problem 698** Partition to K Equal Sum Subsets

**Problem 847** Shortest Path Visiting All Nodes]

**Problem 854** K-Similar Strings

**Problem 943** Find the Shortest Superstring

**Problem 1434** Number of Ways to Wear Different Hats to Each Other

**Problem 1494** Parallel Courses II https://leetcode.com/problems/parallel-courses-ii/discuss/710229/Python-Short-DP-with-Binary-Masks-O(n2*2n)-explained

**Problem 1655** Distribute Repeating Integers

**Problem 1659** Maximize Grid Happiness https://leetcode.com/problems/maximize-grid-happiness/discuss/936467/Python-Short-and-clean-dp-with-diagram-expained

**Problem 1681**. Minimum Incompatibility
https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-incompatibility/discuss/961969/Python-True-O(n*n*2n)-bit-dp-explained

Please let me know, if you know **more** similar dynamic programming with sets problems!