---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0865. Smallest Subtree with all the Deepest Nodes
permalink: /Leetcode Problems/0865/
---

Let us use `dfs(level, node)` function, where:

1. `level` is distance between root of our tree and current `node` we are in.
2. result of this function is the distance between `node` and its farthest children: that is the largest numbers of steps we need to make to reach leaf.

So, how exactly this function will work:
1. If `not node`, then we are in the leaf and result is `0`.
2. in other case, we run recursively `dfs` for `node.left` and `node.right`.
3. What we keep in our `cand`: in first value sum of distances to root and to farthest leaf, second value is distance to root and final value is current node. Note, that `cand[0]` represent length of the longest path going from root to leaf, through our `node`.
4. `if cand[0] > self.ans[0]:` it means that we found node with longer path going from root to leaf, and it means that we need to update `self.ans`.
5. Also, if `cand[0] = self.ans[0]` and also `lft = rgh`, it means that we are now on the longest path from root to leaf and we have a **fork**: we can go either left or right and in both cases will have longest paths. Note, that we start from root of our tree, so it this way we will get **fork** which is the closest to our root, and this is exactly what we want in the end.
6. Finally, we return `cand[0] - cand[1]`: distance from node to farthest children.

**Complexity**: time complexity is `O(n)`: to visit all nodes in tree. Space complexity is `O(h)`, where `h` is height of tree.

```
class Solution:
    def subtreeWithAllDeepest(self, root):
        self.ans = (0, 0, None)
        def dfs(lvl, node):
            if not node: return 0
            lft = dfs(lvl + 1, node.left)
            rgh = dfs(lvl + 1, node.right)
            cand = (max(lft, rgh) + 1 + lvl, lvl, node)

            if cand[0] > self.ans[0] or cand[0] == self.ans[0] and lft == rgh:
                self.ans = cand
          
            return cand[0] - cand[1]
        
        dfs(0, root)
        return self.ans[2]
```