---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 0952. Largest Component Size by Common Factor
permalink: /Leetcode Problems/0952/
---

If you try to run usual dfs/bfs on this problem, you will get TLE, so we need to think something smarter. Note, that if two numbers has common factor more than `1`, it means that they have **prime** common factor. So, let us for example consider all even numbers: they all have prime common factor `2`, so we can immediatly say, that they should be in the same group. Consider all numbers which are divisible by `3`, they also can be put in the same group. There is special data stucture: Disjoint set (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disjoint-set_data_structure), which is very suitable for these type of problems.

Let us consider example `[2,3,6,7,4,12,21,39]` an go through my code:

1. `primes_set(self,n)` return set of unique prive divisors of number `n`, for example for `n = 12` it returns set `[2,3]` and for `n=39` it returns set `[3,13]`.
2. Now, what is `primes` defaultdict? For each found prime, we put indexes of numbers from `A`, which are divisible by this prime. For our example we have: `2: [0,2,4,5], 3:[1,2,5,6,7], 7:[3,6], 13:[7]`. So, what we need to do now? We need to union `0-2-4-5`, `1-2-5-6-7` and `3-6`.
3. That exaclty what we do on the next step: iterate over our `primes` and create connections with `UF.union(indexes[i], indexes[i+1])`
4. Finally, when we made all connections, we need to find the biggest group: so we find parent for each number and find the bigges frequency.

**Complexity**: this is interesting part. Let `n` be length of `A` and let `m` be the biggest possible number. Function `primes_set` is quite heavy: for each number we need to check all numbers before its square root (if number is prime we can not do better with this approach), so complexity of `primes_set` is `O(sqrt(m))`. We apply this function `n` times, so overall complexity of this function will be `O(n*sqrt(m))`. We also have other parts of algorithm, where we put prime numbers to dictionary, complexity will be `O(n*log(m))` at most, because each number has no more, than `log(m)` different prime divisors. We also have the same number of `union()` calls, which will work as `O(1)` if we use it with ranks, and slower if we use it without ranks as I did, but still fast enough to be better than our bottleneck: `O(n*sqrt(m))` complexity for prime factors generation. That is why I use Union Find without ranks: if you want to improve algorighm, you need to deal with `primes_set()` function.
Space complexity is `O(n*log(m))` to keep all prime factors and to keep our `DSU` data structure.

```
class DSU:
    def __init__(self, N):
        self.p = list(range(N))

    def find(self, x):
        if self.p[x] != x:
            self.p[x] = self.find(self.p[x])
        return self.p[x]

    def union(self, x, y):
        xr, yr = self.find(x), self.find(y)
        self.p[xr] = yr

class Solution:
    def primes_set(self,n):
        for i in range(2, int(math.sqrt(n))+1):
            if n % i == 0:
                return self.primes_set(n//i) | set([i])
        return set([n])

    def largestComponentSize(self, A):
        n = len(A)
        UF = DSU(n)
        primes = defaultdict(list)
        for i, num in enumerate(A):
            pr_set = self.primes_set(num)
            for q in pr_set: primes[q].append(i)

        for _, indexes in primes.items():
            for i in range(len(indexes)-1):
                UF.union(indexes[i], indexes[i+1])

        return max(Counter([UF.find(i) for i in range(n)]).values())
```