---
layout: post
title: Leetcode 1044. Longest Duplicate Substring
permalink: /Leetcode Problems/1044/
---

This is quite difficult problem in fact and you will be very unlucky if you have this on real interview. However if you familiar with **Rabin-Karp** algorighm, it will be not so difficult. 
You can see it in full details on Wikipedia: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rabin%E2%80%93Karp_algorithm

Here I briefly explain the idea of it. Imagine, that we have string `abcabcddcb`, and we want to check if there are two substrings of size `3`, which are equal. Idea is to **hash** this substrings, using rolling hash, where `d` is our **base** and `q` is used to avoid overflow.
1. for `abc` we evaluate `[ord(a)*d^2 + ord(b)*d^1 + ord(c)*d^0] % q` 
2. for `bca` we evaluate `[ord(b)*d^2 + ord(c)*d^1 + ord(a)*d^0] % q`
  Note, that we can evaluate rolling hash in `O(1)`, for more details please see wikipedia.
...

However, it can happen that we have **collisions**, we can falsely get two substrings with the same hash, which are not equal. So, we need to check our candidates.

### Binary search for help
Note, that we are asked for the longest duplicate substring. If we found duplicate substring of length `10`, it means that there are duplicate substrings of lenths `9,8, ...`. So, we can use **binary search** to find the longest one.

**Complexity** of algorighm is `O(n log n)` if we assume that probability of collision is low.

### How to read the code

I have `RabinKarp(text, M,q)` function, where `text` is the string where we search patterns, `M` is the length we are looking for and `q` is prime modulo for Rabin-Karp algorighm.

1. First, we need to choose `d`, I chose `d = 256`, because it is more than `ord(z)`.
2. Then we need to evaluate auxiliary value `h`, we need it for fast update of rolling hash.
3. Evalute hash for first window
4. Evaluate hashes for all other windows in `O(n)` (that is `O(1)` for each window), using evaluated `h`. 
5. We keep all hashes in **dictionary**: for each hash we keep start indexes of windows.
6. Finally, we iterate over our dictionary and for each unique hash we check all possible combinations and compare not hashes, but original windows to make sure that it was not a collision.

Now, to the `longestDupSubstring(S)` function we run binary search, where we run our `RabinKarp` funcion at most `log n` times.

```
class Solution:
    def RabinKarp(self,text, M, q):
        if M == 0: return True
        h, t, d = (1<<(8*M-8))%q, 0, 256

        dic = defaultdict(list)

        for i in range(M): 
            t = (d * t + ord(text[i]))% q

        dic[t].append(i-M+1)

        for i in range(len(text) - M):
            t = (d*(t-ord(text[i])*h) + ord(text[i + M]))% q
            for j in dic[t]:
                if text[i+1:i+M+1] == text[j:j+M]:
                    return (True, text[j:j+M])
            dic[t].append(i+1)
        return (False, "")

    def longestDupSubstring(self, S):
        beg, end = 0, len(S)
        q = (1<<31) - 1 
        Found = ""
        while beg + 1 < end:
            mid = (beg + end)//2
            isFound, candidate = self.RabinKarp(S, mid, q)
            if isFound:
                beg, Found = mid, candidate
            else:
                end = mid

        return Found
```

**Further discussion** I did some research in this domain, and there are different ways to handle this problem:
1. You can solve it, using **suffix array** in `O(n log n)` (or even `O(n)` with **suffix trees**) complexity, see https://cp-algorithms.com/string/suffix-array.html for suffix array which is a bit easier than suffix trees https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suffix_tree
2. You can solve it with **Tries**, complexity To be checked.
3. I think there is solution where we use KMP, but I have not seen one yet.
4. If you have more ideas, plese let me know!